HTTP transport nodes 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a widely used standard protocol built on top of the TCP/IPstack for request/reply-based communications. 
The protocol is ofcourse most commonly used byWeb browsers to request pages from a server.

With the development of the Enterprise ServiceBus (ESB) technology and Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), HTTP is becoming more widelyused as the transport mechanism for invoking services, including Web services. 

HTTP is simplya protocol for communication between an HTTP client and an HTTP server.
It does not let youinteract with non-HTTP-enabled services in your enterprise.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
More about HTTP
The HTTP protocol was designed to be simple, fast, extensible, and compatible with previousversions. 
Although data retrieval using HTTP is efficient, the way connections are handledbetween client and server is not efficient where there are multiple requests fordata. 

A newconnection is required for each request/response pair, imposing a significant overhead oncommunications. 
To overcome this problem, HTPP 1.0 or later supports persistent connectionsbetween client and server, with multiple request/response pairs sent via the same connection. 

Thisfunction is available via the connection: keep-alive header and became the default in HTTP 1.1,with the client and server required to explicitly close the connection using the connection: close header.
Persistent connection is very useful in some situations, such as when trying to repeatedly invoke a service, as a new socket no longer needs to be created for each request, dramatically improving performance.

HTTP is becoming a popular method for invoking services over TCP/IP, using standards such asSimple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) for the content of the request.

Since HTTP and SOAPare widely used standards, this method is a good way to invoke a Web service, though you canalso invoke services with other technologies and standards such as messaging (using WebSphereMQ for example), or SOAP over JMS. 

A key advantage of HTTP is that it is often not blocked by firewalls, enabling applications that use HTTP to be more available.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Integrating HTTP within the enterprise
A major advantage of HTTP is that it is a well-defined and vendor-neutral standard. 

HTTP by itself,however, is not suitable for all enterprise Web service invocations, because most large enterpriseshave many applications and services that arenot HTTP enabled, and data from these applicationsoften needs to be transformed before it can be understood by other enterprise applications. 

Yet many of these existing applications are well-defined, reliable, and high-performing, and thereforethey often need to be integrated with the rest of the enterprise, instead of being re-architected orrebuilt.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HTTP transport nodes
Message Broker supports many different protocols, including:
•HTTP
•WebSphereMQ
•WebSphereMQ Telemetry Transport
•Multicast
•WebSphereMQ Real-time
•JMS Transport

HTTP transport nodes enable Message Broker to receive data from any HTTP client and senddata back to that client. In addition, the nodes provide the ability to issue an HTTP request as anHTTP client.

The HTTP nodes act simply as a way of getting data into Message Broker. Once the data hasarrived, all of the functionality normally associated with Message Broker is available. For example:

Data computations and transformations using:
•ESQL
•Java Computer nodes
•Enrichment of data from external sources
•Routing

There are three HTTP transport nodes in Message Broker:
