There are three HTTP transport nodes in Message Broker:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HTTPInput node
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Like other input nodes such as MQInput, the HTTPInput node obtains data from the client usingHTTP as the communication protocol as opposed to WebSphere MQ or JMS. HTTPInput nodesupports several message domain formats for the incoming data:
•MRM
•XML
•XMLNS
•XMLNSC
•JMS
•JMSStream
•IDOC
•MIME
•BLOB

Once the data is received, HTTPInput node parses the data into the internal Message Brokermessage tree, enabling all normal Message Broker functionality to be used in the remainder ofthe message flow. 

An HTTPInput node must be in the same flow as an HTTPReply node, or it must pass the message to another flow containing an HTTPReply node, such as via an MQOutputnode, because HTTP is a request/reply protocol and therefore a connecting client always expects a reply of some kind. 

HTTPInput node supports both HTTP and  HTTP over SSL (HTTPS)

HTTPReply node

HTTPReply node sends a response back from Message Broker to the HTTP client that originally invoked the flow.
The response is matched to the original request. 
The HTTPReply node mustbe in a flow that contains an HTTPInput node, or the original message must have been receivedfrom a flow that contained an HTTPInput node. 
The entire message tree is used as the body of the response.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HTTPRequest node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HTTPRequest node can be used within a message flow to enable Message Broker to invoke an existing HTTP-based service. 

The request can be made up of the entire message flow messagetree or specified parts of it.

You can augment the contents of the original input message (therequest sent to the HTTP service) with the response from the HTTP service to create a new message before propagating it to subsequent nodes in the flow. 

HTTPRequest supports several different message domain formats for the incoming data:

•MRM
•XML
•XMLNS
•XMLNSC
•JMS
•JMSStream
•IDOC
•MIME
•BLOB
