Approaches to developing web services
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Integration Toolkit supports three primary approaches to developing web services.

The first approach is to use an integration service.
An integration service is a specialized application that acts as a container for SOAP web services that are defined with a WSDL document. 

Integration services provide a structured solution for quickly building a web service.

An integration service implements WSDL web service operations as subflows. 

The integration service container manages the SOAP message parsing and HTTP message transport options.

With this approach, developers focus on implementing business logic, not managing the lowerlevel message serialization and de-serialization tasks.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you require a finer level of control in processing SOAP web services, you can build message flows with SOAP nodes. 
With this approach you can create a SOAP web service that uses non-HTTP transport protocols, such as JMS.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Last, you can build any type of web service with HTTP nodes. With HTTP nodes, you can build web services that do not use SOAP messages. For example, RESTful webservices store the message payload in the HTTP message body itself. 

To implement a REST service or to call a REST service from a message flow, you must use HTTP nodes.



