HTTP listeners
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In Integration Bus, you can choose between an integration node listener or an integration server listener to manage HTTP messages.

The integration node listener is the default listener when the message flow contains HTTP nodes. 

It requires access to SYSTEM.BROKER queues on an IBM MQ queue manager, which must be associated with the integration node.

The integration server embedded listener is the default listener when the message flow contains SOAP Input, SOAP Reply, and SOAP AsyncResponse nodes.

As an option, you can change the configuration such that some integration servers use the integration node listener for HTTP nodes, SOAP nodes, or both. You can change other integration servers to use the embedded listener for HTTP nodes, SOAP nodes, or both.

If you choose to disable the integration node listener, the integration server listeners are used for all HTTP and SOAP nodes, even if you did not explicitly enable support for them. So, for example if you set all relevant integration node and  integration server properties to ”false”, the
integration server listeners handle all HTTP messages.


Note:

• Integration node listener
– Requires access to SYSTEM.BROKER queues on an IBM MQ queue manager that is specified on the integration node
– Default ports: HTTP connector = 7080, HTTPS connector = 7083

• Integration server embedded listener
– Integration server embedded listener does not require IBM MQ
– Default port range: HTTP connector = 7800 – 7842, HTTPS connector is 7843 – 7884