HTTP message processing nodes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HTTP nodes support web service provider and consumer scenarios with request/response.

A message flow application can act as an intermediary and transform, route, or aggregate webservice requests. A message flow application parses the request, 
and forwards it to one or more destinations according to the content, perhaps after transformation. Reply data from the destinations is returned to the original client.

To develop a message flow to provide web services, you can use the HTTP Input node to receive an HTTP message from an HTTP client. You then use the HTTP Reply node to return an HTTP response message to the client.

If the message flow needs to access a web service, you can use the HTTP Request node to interact with a web service by using all or part of the input message as the request sent to that service. The node can also be configured to create an output message from the contents of the input message before the message is propagated to subsequent nodes in the message flow.

If you use HTTP nodes to process SOAP messages and want to work only on the payload in the SOAP body, you would use the SOAPExtract and SOAPEnvelope nodes.


Message flow as HTTP/HTTPS client

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The message flow in the example uses the HTTP Request node to interact with a web service by using all or part of the input message as the request sent to that service. The node can also be configured to create an output message from the contents of the input message before the message is propagated to subsequent nodes in the message flow.

Depending on the configuration, the HTTP Request node constructs an HTTP or an HTTP over SSL (HTTPS) request from the specified contents of the input message. The node sends the request to the web service and then receives the response from the web service and parses the response for inclusion in the output tree. If the configuration requires them, the node generates HTTP headers.

The Default Web service URL property on the HTTP Request node determines the destination URL for a web service request. You can configure a Compute node before the HTTPRequest node within the message flow to override the value that is set in the property. The HTTPRequest node does full HTTP request/reply synchronously.
If it is specified on the URL, the HTTPRequest node uses HTTPS.

Message flow as service provider
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A message flow application can act as an intermediary and transform, route, or aggregate web service requests. A message flow application parses the request, and forwards it to one or more destinations according to the content, perhaps after transformation. 

Reply data from the destinations is returned to the original client.

Each integration node has a single TCP/IP port on which incoming HTTP requests are accepted. 
Client applications can post to a predefined URL or a URL that is already looked up. An attribute on each HTTP Input node qualifies the requests for which the node is responsible.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HTTP nodes main properties
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HTTP Input node

– Web service URL
– Use HTTPS
– Maximum client wait time for HTTP Reply, on timeout send SOAP fault message
– Security properties

• HTTP Reply node

– Reply send timeout for acknowledgment from client
– Generate default HTTP headers from HTTP ReplyHeader or HTTP ResponseHeader of input message

• HTTP Request node

– Web service URL
– Request timeout for web services replies, default = 120 seconds
– HTTP proxy settings
– Use InputBody as request, or path (for example, InputRoot.x)
– Use web service reply as OutputBody, or path (for example, OutputRoot .x)
– Generate default HTTP headers from Input

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HTTP nodes are the HTTP Input node, HTTP Reply node, and HTTP Request node. This slide highlights the main properties for the HTTP nodes.

The HTTP Input node receives an HTTP message from an HTTP client for processing by a message flow. 
Path suffix for URL identifies the source of web service requests. 

Use HTTPS identifies whether the node accepts secure HTTP. You can also specify the maximum wait time for an HTTP Reply and properties for security.

The HTTP Reply node returns a response from the message flow to an HTTP client. This node generates the response to the HTTP client and waits for confirmation that it was sent. With the HTTP Reply node, you can specify the time to wait for an acknowledgment from the client. You also have the option of generating the HTTP header from the HTTP header in the input message.

An HTTP Request node can call a web service in the middle of a flow. The Web service URL property identifies the URL for the web service. The Request timeout property is the time in seconds that the node waits for a response from the web service. The HTTP(S) proxy location property identifies the proxy server to which requests are sent.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------