SOAP message processing nodes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Typically, SOAP nodes are used when working with SOAP-based web services.

A developer can choose to implement SOAP request/response flows synchronously or asynchronously.

Calling a web service synchronously with a SOAP Request node means that the flow waits for a response from the web service before processing continues.

Calling a web service asynchronously means that the SOAP Async Request node sends a web service request. 

The request does not block the message flow by waiting for the associated web service response because the response is received at the SOAP Async Response node,which is in a separate flow. 

This method handles multiple requests in parallel. You can configure the SOAP nodes manually or by using the WSDL that describes the service.

Web Services Security describes enhancements to SOAP messaging to provide quality of protection through message integrity, message confidentiality, and single message authentication. 

WS-Security mechanisms can be used to accommodate a wide variety of security models and encryption technologies. 

In Integration Bus, policy sets and bindings define and configure your WS-Security and WS-RM requirements for the SOAP node.


SOAP Input and SOAP Reply nodes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The SOAPInput and SOAPReply nodes are similar to the HTTPInput and HTTPReply nodes and are used in a message flow that implements a web service. 

The SOAPInput node listens for incoming web service requests, and the SOAPReply sends responses back to the client.

SOAP nodes automatically handle SOAP with Attachment (SwA) and Message Transmission Optimization Mechanism (MTOM) messages.

Integration Bus also supports a SOAP domain. You can use the SOAP parser with the SOAP nodes in your message flow to create a common WSDL-based logical tree format for working with web services, independent of the physical bitstream format.

Every integration server that contains a running message flow with a SOAP Input node is allocated a TCP/IP port to handle and accept incoming HTTP requests.

By default, SOAP Input, SOAP Reply, and SOAP AsyncResponse nodes use an integration server embedded HTTP listener to manage HTTP requests, instead of the integration node HTTP listener. 

The listener is associated with an HTTP Connector object and an HTTPS Connector object. The HTTP Connector and HTTPS Connector objects control the runtime
properties that affect the handling of HTTP messages.

In the example, the integration server listener handles the SOAP requests. Each integration server in the integration node uses a unique listener port. 
Each connector has its own assigned port, which is allocated from a range of numbers, as required. 

The default range for the HTTP Connector is 7800 - 7842; the default range for the HTTPS Connector is 7843 - 7884.

For example, the first integration server to start an embedded listener by using the HTTP Connector is allocated port 7800. The second integration server to start an embedded listener by using the HTTP Connector is allocated port 7801.

SOAP Request node
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Similar to the HTTP Request node, the SOAP Request node is used to start a web service from within a message flow.

If the web service provider takes a long time to return the message, then the message flow is blocked until a response is received. This blocking can affect the overall throughput of messages through the flow.

Synchronous requests in a message flow (not only SOAP Request but also HTTP Request, MQ Get, Aggregation nodes) can always lead to latency problems.

Integration Bus provides an asynchronous alternative for SOAP requests.

SOAP AsyncRequest and SOAP AsyncResponse
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can use the SOAPAsyncRequest node with the SOAPAsyncResponse node to construct a pair of message flows that call a web service asynchronously.

This asynchronous function enables multiple outbound requests to be made almost in parallel because the outbound request is not blocked while it waits for the response.

The SOAPAsyncRequest node is linked as a pair with a SOAPAsyncResponse node by using a unique identifier, and optionally WS-Addressing, to correlate response messages with the original request.

Asynchronous SOAP nodes need special configuration.


Configuring SOAP AsyncRequest nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Unique identifier property on SOAPAsyncRequest node links to a SOAPAsyncResponse node. When using HTTP transport, this identifier is used as a unique URL fragment to identify incoming response messages for the SOAPAsyncResponse node.

The WSDL file name property is the location of the WSDL file that you want to use to configure the node. Enter the full path to the WSDL file, or click Browse to select a WSDL file from the workspace.

The Port type property lists all the port types that the WSDL file defines. By default, the first port type that is found in the WSDL file that has an associated HTTP or JMS binding is selected.

The Binding property lists all the SOAP bindings associated with the selected port type. Only HTTP or JMS transport is supported. Bindings are listed in the order that they are displayed in the WSDL file. By default, the first binding that implements the operation and has an associated service port is selected.

The Binding operation property contains all the operations defined by the selected binding. The first operation in the list is selected by default.

The Service port property lists all the service ports that point to the selected binding. The first service port for the binding is selected by default.

The Target namespace property displays the namespace of the selected WSDL file.

The Transport property is set automatically when the Binding property is selected. The value of this property shows the transport used by the selected WSDL binding. Use the properties on the HTTP Transport and JMS Transport properties tabs to configure the transport properties.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WSDL importer
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Creates a message model from WSDL

– Models all messages that can exist inside SOAP <Envelope>
– Imports the predefined message definitions for the <Envelope> itself

• Accepts a range of WSDL formats

– Single and multifile formats
– RPC-encoded, RPC-literal, and document-literal WSDL styles
– WSDL V1.1, SOAP V1.1, and SOAP V1.2

• Validates WSDL against WS-I Basic Profile
• Line command: mqsicreatemsgdefsfromwsdl or mqsicreatemsgdefs

• To implement the WSDL binding and endpoint details in a message flow, drag WSDL into the Message Flow editor

• Creates and configures subflows
– To call a web service or to expose the flow as a web service
– To wrap or unwrap the SOAP envelope


• Import a WSDL document into an Integration Bus application, library, or integration service:

1. From the Integration Toolkit menu, click New > Message Model.
2. Click SOAP XML as the message model type.
3. In the wizard, click I already have WSDL for my data.
As an option, you can specify an XML schema file for the WSDL document XML schema types.



Configuring SOAP nodes
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can configure SOAP nodes by using a WSDL file. This approach is suggested because it reduces the possibility of configuration errors.

If you use a corresponding SOAP Reply node in the message flow, its configuration is taken from the associated SOAP Input node. 

A reference to the originating SOAP node is passed in the LocalEnvironment folder of the message assembly.

The properties of the SOAP Input are organized under the following tabs.

 The Basic properties configure the WSDL properties, in particular, the WSDL file name, port type, binding, and service port. If the WSDL contains more than one binding, port Type, or other properties, then the correct one can be defined from a menu. 

At run time, if the SOAP message contains an operation that is not defined within the WSDL, a SOAP fault is returned.

 The HTTP Transport properties specify the URL Selector, whether to use HTTPS, and a Maximum Client wait time.

 You configure the JMS Transport properties when the messages are sent by using SOAP over JMS as the transport protocol.

 WS-Extensions properties configure WS-Addressing and WS-Security. The WSExtensions properties are covered later in this unit.

Generating WSDL from message set
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

• In the Integration Toolkit, right-click the folder that contains the message set file and then select Generate > WSDL Definition
– Generate a new WSDL definition from existing message definitions
– Export an existing WSDL definition to another directory in the workspace or file system

• One or more bindings can be requested
– SOAP/JMS, SOAP/HTTP, JMS TextMessage

• WSDL message types match MRM logical messages
– Physical representations can require mapping or transformation for bindings

• Supports both the recognized WSDL styles: “rpc” and “document”

• Only “literal” encoding; SOAP encoding not supported

• Validates generated WSDL against WS-I Basic Profile


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Common SOAP message tree
The SOAP parser represents web service messages with the same logical tree shape irrespective of the specific bitstream format. The SOAPInput node generates a tree whose shape is unaffected by the input message. By contrast, the message assembly that an HTTPInput node produces differs depending on whether the message was MIME format or SOAP format.

That WSDL that is deployed to the integration node is used to validate the SOAP messages that are received for the SOAPInput node. For example, you can ensure that the operation that is received in the incoming SOAP message is defined within the WSDL.

The bitstream format for these runtime messages can be SOAP V1.1 or SOAP V1.2, and optionally wrapped by MIME as an SOAP with Attachments (SwA) or MTOM message.


SOAP message tree

This slide shows a more detailed view of the SOAP message tree.

The SOAP.Context branch contains the SOAP envelope information. It also shows the SOAP version that is being used. The SOAP parser sets the following information (derived from the WSDL) under SOAP.Context on input: port, portType, operation, operationType.

The Content-Id within the Attachment section is copied directly under the Attachment part, allowing the specific message part to be easily identified and parsed.

The SOAP payload (under Envelope.Body) is saved under SOAP.Body.

The SOAP header blocks (under Envelope.Header) are saved under SOAP.Header.

With the SOAPExtract and SOAPEnvelope nodes you can work on the payload of the SOAP body.


SOAP Extract node
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The SOAP Extract node can detach the SOAP envelope to a standard location in the LocalEnvironment tree. Alternatively, you can specify an explicit location by using an XPath expression. 

Any existing SOAP envelope at the chosen location is replaced.

The SOAP Extract node can also route the SOAP message to a Label node within the message flow that the SOAP operation identifies within the message. The SOAP Operation is identified within the SOAP body tag.

Both functions are optional; they are contained within one node because they are often used
together.



SOAP Envelope node
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You use the SOAP Envelope node to add a SOAP envelope back onto an existing message that was extracted by using the SOAP Extract node.

The default behavior of the SOAP Envelope node is to attach the SOAP envelope from a standard location in the LocalEnvironment tree. You can specify an explicit location by using an XPath expression. 

You can also use the node in a flow without a corresponding SOAP Extract node. The node can optionally create a default SOAP envelope.








