PoliciesVsConfigurableServicesInACE


The below blog explains the concept of Policies in IBM App Connect Enterprise v11 and how is it related to configurable services which was available in earlier versions.


What do you mean by Policies and what is its use in ACE?

Policies are reusable XML document that are defined by XML schema definition called Policy.xsd which can be used by developers/administrators and operators

These policies control particular configurations like 
 node properties,
 flow rate, 
 connection credentials, 
 certain aspects of message flow behavior

A policy can be attached to the entities that one wants to control like
 Message flows
 Message flow nodes
 Integration servers.

How is Policy in ACE different from Configurable services in IIB?

Configurable services in IIB are runtime properties which can be used to change the flow or node level properties at run time
Policies in ACE replaces configurable services in IIB. 
There is no concept of configurable services available in ACE. 
Even if you try to create configurable services using mqsicreateconfigurableservice it would create a equivalent policies in ACE.



mqsicreateconfigurable service.

mqsicreateconfigurable service has been deprecated in ACE and any usage of this command in ACE will create equivalent policies in the default policy project that gets associated with integration node.

These default policies gets inherited by all the integration servers present for that integration node.

One can override a policy that is inherited by an integration server by deploying an updated version of the policy in that integration server or by placing an updated policy in the overrides sub-directory of the integration server directory.