What is an integration service?

In IBM Integration Bus, an integration service is a specialized application that acts as a container for a web service solution.

Integration services contain message flows to implement web service operations.

A Web Service Description Language (WSDL) document defines the interface for the webservice.

Integration Bus supports three ways to create an integration service in the Toolkit:

• Create an integration service from a blank canvas.

• Start with an existing interface from a WSDL document.

• Start with an IBM Business Process Manager integration service

Approaches to building web services
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can build web services in three ways: 
as an integration service, as a message flow with HTTP or SOAP nodes, or by using REST APIs to expose integrations as a RESTful web service that HTTP clients can call.


Why should you use integration services?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
An integration service is a ready-built container for SOAP web services. It provides a clear mapping between web service operations and message flows. You can quickly build SOAP web services from database and MQ applications.


When should you use a message flow with HTTP or SOAP nodes instead of an integration service?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Use HTTP or SOAP nodes to build web services that do not define a WSDL interface. 
For example, RESTful services do not use the WSDL specification to define the interface or implementation details. In this case, use HTTP nodes to map REST resources to message flow features.


Integration service project structure
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In the Integration Toolkit, you contain integration services in an integration service project.

The main components of an integration service project are the Integration Service Description and the Resources.

The Integration Service Description folder contains a diagram of the service interface,binding, and message flow implementation.

The Resources folder contains the components of the integration service and includes schemas, flows, subflows, and WSDLs.
